Previously on Elementary:
- Hannah. the guy laid hands on you.
- I am not 9 years old anymore. Dad.
I wanna be promoted just as bad
as the next cop.
and I'm not just talking
about detective.
I want to be captain someday.
like you.
But it's never gonna happen if people
look at me and they see "victim."
Watson. you still over there?
Yes. I'm still here because
I can't go home because of you.
Why did you bring the bees
in the house anyway?
Varroa mites are a pernicious threat
to the colony.
I intended a thorough inspection.
as well as an application
of baker's sugar
as a preventative measure.
My thoughts were concerned
with colony collapse.
I failed to see the more urgent
threat of table collapse.
Wait a second. You're not talking
about my table. are you?
The one I bought
for my apartment?
Two hours should be sufficient
to return the hive to stasis.
I'll be in touch.
Ugh. Do you have a roommate?
- No.
- Don't get one. Ever.
Trouble in paradise?
Well. nothing a good exterminator
couldn't solve.
- Tonight still a good night to talk?
- Yeah. let's just get out of here.
I need coffee
that wasn't made by a cop.
Three neighborhood
drugstores. all in my precinct.
all robbed in the last month.
None of the stores had
security cameras
but all the robberies took place
when the owners were closing up.
Descriptions of the perps match
in all three.
and also. they only took
prescription pills.
High street value.
Oxy. hydrocodone.
Sounds like it was all done
by the same crew.
I've been re-interviewing witnesses.
putting in extra hours.
keeping an eye
on the other stores but. uh.
I'm not making much headway.
Is there a detective on this case?
Hanford.
I'm not trying to step on his toes. I'm...
I don't want to be disrespectful but...
But his plate's kind of full right now.
It's my neighborhood.
My partner and I. we...
We have to look these people
in the eye every day.
They're scared.
It would mean a lot to them.
A lot to me.
if I could bring this one home.
All right. I'll take a look.
Um. I'll let you know
if anything comes up.
I know it's late here.
Well. you wanted to go
to school out west. no?
Or is it just that I'm keeping you
from a party?
Hey. I'm sorry. Yeah. some drunk idiot
and he almost hit me.
No. no. no. I'm fine. I'm fine.
I guess the bars must be letting out.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
What the hell?
Hey!
Hey. man. what's wrong?
What a drunk idiot.
I tell you. man.
you had an angel looking out
for you tonight.
Ripped By mstoll
- You said you knew this guy.
- I was an admirer.
Garrison Boyd was president of the
Five Boroughs Sceptics Association.
He was a debunker
of the highest order.
He was a bright light of reason in a sea
of gullibility and magical thought.
- He was a professional doubter.
- Of?
Pseudoscience. the paranormal.
organized religion.
All the usual bollocks.
He wrote a blog that I rather enjoyed.
Did he believe in crowbars?
Because I'm pretty sure
that's what caved his skull in.
You put the time of death
at approximately one hour
before his car was found.
I'm guessing whoever killed him was
hoping that the impact of the train
would hide the real cause of death.
It says here you removed a small.
conical object
- from beneath his right eye socket.
- After he was struck. he fell forward.
This got wedged under his eye
on the way down.
Don't know what it is.
I'm sending it to the lab.
It's the tip of a hat.
You are familiar with the vile practice
of lawn ornamentation?
The worst offenders employ garden
gnomes. yea big. white beards...
- Pointy red hats.
- If he wasn't so dead.
I suspect Mr. Boyd would find it ironic
that a diminutive wood spirit
played a role in his murder.
He was particularly aggressive
in his pursuit of those
who sought to profit
from their hoaxes. so...
Perhaps his persistence
is the reason he now lies here.
Think being debunked
is a reason to kill somebody?
Some of the most aggressive
correspondence on his web site
came from local ghost tour operators.
hawkers of phony medical cures.
I think one recent exposé target might
have not so much a reasonable motive
for murder as a lower standard
for committing one.
Because he's almost certainly insane.
I won't pretend that Mr. Boyd and I
didn't have a contentious relationship.
He took issue with the church
on more than one occasion.
You mean.
he took issue with your cult.
He misused that term as well.
That's just the kind of rigid.
closed-minded thinking
that I preach against here.
At one time or another. every great
religion has been attacked as a cult.
So have most cults.
- Excuse me for a minute. would you?
- Where are you...?
Look. the victim published almost
two dozen threatening responses
you sent him.
after he posted a few articles
criticizing the church's
recruitment methods.
Well. I have the right to respond.
if somebody publishes lies
about what we're trying to do here.
You told Mr. Boyd that his attacks
had begun a chain reaction
that would lead to
"his removal from this physical reality."
We meditate here.
We practice energy transference.
So when I wrote to him.
I was merely
absorbing his hateful energy
and reflecting it back.
Did I harm him physically? No.
Did I appeal to the quantum source
for swift and final justice? Perhaps.
In other words.
you prayed for the guy to die.
- That's not a crime. is it?
- So we're done here.
The church held
a 12-hour service last night.
Attendance was mandatory. so no one
here could have killed Garrison Boyd.
We're just taking
your new friend's word for it?
Her name is Aria. And yes. we are.
When it became clear this one
would do little more than proselytize.
I scanned his herd and realized
that Aria was having second thoughts
- about being here.
- Aria's a level-three conduit.
After a brief conversation with Aria.
a.k.a. Elizabeth Weinberg.
I was able to determine
that some unresolved issues
from her childhood
had led to a transference
of a need for structure
and discipline onto Mr. Finn.
Elizabeth agreed. and has forthwith
terminated her relationship
- with your church.
- What?
Are you saying
you deprogrammed her?
I would never use such a rigid
and closed-minded term.
She did. however. share some useful
information on the church's methods.
Apparently. their esteemed leader likes
to send his acolytes out to follow.
photograph and harass people
who dare to criticize him.
So she's currently in your office.
e-mailing me
the dossier you compiled
on Garrison Boyd.
I'm hopeful it will shed some
additional light on his final days.
Ms. Weinberg is leaving with us.
Any attempt to hinder
her return to her former life
will be met with an energy
transference most unpleasant.
- Joan.
- Oh. hey.
Heard you were helping Hannah
with something.
Yeah. there's been some robberies
in her precinct. She wants to help.
- You sure it's not a bother?
- No. not at all.
I got into it this morning
and now I'm helping Sherlock
with this homicide he's working.
Just make sure she knows whose
consultant you really are.
All right.
So when were you going to inform me
that we're assisting
- Hannah Gregson on a case?
- You could hear all that?
We aren't helping her. okay?
I am. And it's not a secret.
I'm just gonna run down a lead or two.
It shouldn't take too much time.
It took time this morning.
So is this everything
from the church?
It is a testament to the insidiousness
of cult thinking:
A charismatic loon like Finn warps
impressionable minds
and then sends them to stalk
and harass.
And here I thought they just
sold flowers at the airport.
I find the practice repulsive.
but in this case.
it may have played in our favor.
Two cult members were assigned
to Garrison Boyd in the weeks
before his murder.
Thanks to their long lenses
and meticulous note-taking.
we may have a person of interest
a man by the name of Collin Eisely.
I'm sorry.
I need to catch up a little. here.
Have I been under police
surveillance?
No. those were taken by someone
who was interested in that man.
Garrison Boyd.
We have hundreds of
photographs. in all manner of activities.
Those are the only ones
where he appears to be
in heated altercation with a man
two days before he was murdered.
- This guy was murdered?
- Last night.
Do you wanna tell us
how you knew him?
I didn't. Uh...
The day these were taken. he was
waiting for me outside my building.
I'd never seen him before.
I'm confused.
Does being accosted by a lunatic
make me a murder suspect?
That depends
on why he accosted you.
I'm in real estate.
Late last year. I looked at some beach
properties out on Long Island.
I made this woman an offer
on her house. she said no.
A few months later. this nut comes
out of the woodwork and accuses me
- of trying to scare her into moving.
- Scare her how?
According to him.
she was hearing things in her house.
Voices. banging. I don't know.
She thought it was ghosts.
he thought it was me.
- Was it?
- Of course not.
She didn't wanna sell. I moved on.
end of story.
Mm. I see you've amassed. um.
quite an art collection here. Mr. Eisely.
That's an interest that requires
a great deal of money
and a very competitive spirit.
I imagine you're not the sort of person
who takes no for an answer very often.
I'm also not the sort who goes around
scaring little old ladies.
Can you tell us
where you were last night
between the hours
of 10 p.m. And midnight?
At a retirement party for a friend.
A few of us went out
for drinks after that.
I'll get you their names and numbers.
If that guy was interested
in the property.
there's a possibility
that other developers were too.
You're wondering if one of them
gaslit the owner.
then killed Boyd.
lest he expose them?
Makes more sense than ghosts.
doesn't it?
Well. I wouldn't say "ghosts." plural.
It was my husband. Harry.
I know because I heard him.
He was talking to me.
- Your husband passed away?
- Oh. coming up on a year now.
We know that Colin Eisely made an
offer on the house a few months ago.
Did anyone else approach you?
Yes. once.
but that was almost 20 years go.
I don't think that company
is even in business now.
Did you tell anyone else about
the voices you were hearing?
Only my daughter.
She was the one who called
that poor man. Mr. Boyd.
And she wanted him to convince me
that I was imagining things.
She has such a literal mind.
I've always told her
she should be more open.
So she didn't hear the voice.
And she never heard any
of Harry's tantrums. either.
- Tantrums?
- He knocked some glasses out
of that cabinet there.
Lights flickered.
Sometimes.
he shook the whole house.
Oh. he was angry.
and he was letting me know.
And why would he have been angry?
Sometimes we had an open marriage.
Other times we didn't.
And when we didn't. I did some things
that I never told him about.
And now that he's dead.
he knows everything.
That's quite a one-two punch. isn't it?
Discovering you're dead and a cuckold.
It doesn't bother me
that you don't believe me.
I fear that I too.
may be cursed with a literal mind.
If. however.
you are not experiencing delusions.
it may be possible that someone
is trying to take advantage of you.
You said Harry spoke to you.
what did he say?
I have it on tape.
You could listen for yourself.
The clearest I ever heard Harry's voice
was when I was down here.
so I started leaving my tape recorder
on all the time.
You have to turn the volume
all the way up to hear his voice.
- Im haram.
- No. no.
He's saying a name. Jim Harmon.
That's the man I had the affair with.
Harry really shook
the whole house that night.
And then he started yelling
Jim's name.
Well. do you still think
I'm imagining things?
I apologize. Mrs. Renziger.
You most certainly are not.
You mentioned that some glasses
were knocked off the cabinet upstairs.
That cabinet rests against
this wall. yes?
Yes. the living room is right above it.
How well do you know
your neighbors?
Jerry and Paula?
They moved in here about
the same time as I did.
But they're snowbirds.
They won't be back from Florida
for a few more weeks.
Well. good neighbors
often exchange keys.
Are you a good neighbor.
Mrs. Renziger?
The voice on the recording did not say
"Jim Harmon" it said "im haram."
It's a common Arabic obscenity.
So you think that voice was coming
from all the way over here
in the neighbor's basement.
No. I think someone shortened
the distance considerably.
Along with the voice.
I heard a distinct banging
and a low rumbling frequency
on the recording.
That. along with the rest
of Mrs. Renziger's account.
the. uh. vibrations.
the flickering lights.
all suggest that someone
was employing digging equipment
near the foundation of her home.
There were no signs
of digging outside.
so you think it was all happening
down here?
Is that a tunnel?
With a termination point somewhere
near the foundation
of Mrs. Renziger's home.
Why would someone do all this.
dig from this basement to hers?
I know a way to find out.
- Did you find anything?
- I have. indeed.
Mrs. Renziger was not visited
by her husband's ghost.
She may. however.
have been visited by terrorists.
Meet Ruby.
She's a transatlantic data cable.
The fastest in the world
and a backbone
of the North American Internet.
She looks like a garden hose.
It's a curse of the modern age
that very significant things
appear commonplace.
Now. Ruby is one of several
undersea cables which connects
Europe to the United States.
The full spectrum of commerce
and communication flows
through her optic fibers.
as well as the requisite glut
of pornography and cat videos.
And you knew that
was what that cable was how?
The location of such cables is mapped.
They're accessible
with very little effort.
The intent is to avoid entanglements
and utility mishaps.
but it also makes them amongst
the most vulnerable
terrorist targets in the world.
And this basement's probably
a pretty smart place to dig from.
And anywhere along the beach
would attract attention.
out in the ocean would be
a lot harder.
And the cable ties into a landing house
another quarter of a mile inland.
at which point security increases
markedly.
What our attackers did not account
for was the intrusion of Garrison Boyd.
Right. so someone runs tunneling
equipment out of the Ayers' basement
while they're away for the winter.
Mrs. Renziger hears the noise
and thinks it's her dead husband.
so her daughter asks Boyd
to prove otherwise.
and then Boyd finds all this.
same way you and Joan did?
This little fella was amongst
the gardening equipment over there.
The tip of his hat is missing.
Mr. Boyd was murdered in this room.
The killer loads the body
into Boyd's car.
drives it back into the city.
but then what?
Why not come back
and cut the cable?
Figured Boyd found them.
someone else might be coming too?
Perhaps. Or perhaps the fact
that Ruby has not been cut
signals a much greater threat.
The Internet is designed
with redundancies.
Cutting a single cable
would no doubt cause some problems.
but a coordinated attack.
that could be crippling.
You think there might be other guys
digging up other cables.
waiting for a signal to cut them
all at once?
I think it's a possibility
that we should consider.
I'll reach out to DHS.
Let them know what's going on.
I'll check back with you.
So you were right.
Whoever dug that tunnel stuck
mostly to the basement.
- They did come here now and then.
- Yes. naturally.
If the man or men or women
were here to do arduous work.
the hours would have been long.
they would have needed to eat.
hydrate and. of course.
expel waste.
Toilet seat was up. so I'm guessing
at least one person was a "he."
Also we found this in the fridge.
Doogh. Carbonated yogurt drink
popular in Arab countries.
It's hard to believe bubbling yogurt
is popular anywhere.
I figured it didn't belong to the Ayers.
so I called the American distributor.
No place on the island sells it.
Six stores in the city do.
They're e-mailing me a list.
Assuming these stores
have surveillance cameras.
we can check their footage
from the last few weeks.
see if anyone jumps out.
Hannah. come in.
- So I have good news.
- Don't tell me you solved it already.
Actually. you already had
all the pieces.
Now. you said that all three drugstores
were robbed around closing time.
At first. I assumed
what you probably did.
That it was because closing
is when a store is most vulnerable.
No customers. fewer employees.
most cash on hand.
But in this case.
there was something else.
Now. two of the pharmacists told you
that a candy-machine vendor
had come by just before
the robberies.
I checked. and that same vendor
has machines in all three stores.
You think the vendor's in on it.
He scopes out the stores and then
tells his accomplices if it's all clear.
A friend took these today.
Vending machine company uses
this warehouse to store
their inventory and do repairs.
Look at these guys.
Height. hair color. visible tattoos.
They match the descriptions
of the three perps.
They definitely don't look like
they're in the gumball business.
Mm. You found them. I can't believe it.
I mean. I can. I'm not surprised.
But thank you.
Odds are. this is where
they're storing the stolen pills.
When you bring this
to Detective Hanford.
feel free to leave my name out of it.
My guess is.
the department's gonna wanna sit
- on this place for a while.
- Why?
As long as it doesn't look like
another robbery is imminent.
they're gonna want to follow
the drugs up the food chain.
With the amount of pills
these guys are stealing.
they probably have help moving them.
So this could lead to bigger fish.
Took no small amount of negotiation.
but I was able to procure
security footage from each
of the doogh-selling
ethnic markets that you identified.
Now. taking into account the hours
Claire Renziger did and did not
hear ghosts. it would appear
that our tunneler kept hours
between 8 to 6.
So it stands to reason
that he bought his doogh
and other provisions at either
the beginning or end of each day.
Oh. that's great.
It'll help us move through these faster.
Assuming you're not still
splitting your time
between the tribulations of a beat cop
and the hunt for a likely terrorist.
May I remind you that "beat cop"
is our boss's daughter?
Is that why you were helping her?
To curry favor?
I'm helping her
because she asked me.
- What do you think of her?
- Hannah? She's nice.
What do you think of her
as an investigator?
Oh. she's green.
I mean. she's dedicated.
She did all the legwork.
she just couldn't connect the dots.
- Why?
- Oh. it just confirms
a long-held suspicion.
She's middling.
Hold on. I did not say
she was middling.
That's sad. because
she is the daughter of a colleague
and he has certain aspirations
for her.
Excuse me. but have you ever
even talked to Hannah?
- Twice.
- That's it?
- That all you needed to size her up?
- I also looked at her records.
Understand. Watson: I think she's
a perfectly capable police officer.
She knows how to handle herself
in a confrontation.
First-rate with a weapon.
What I fear she is not. however.
is a detective.
Give me a break.
It's a calling. Watson.
No one knows that better than you.
I learned because you taught me.
I taught you
because I saw something.
What if I told you I see something
in Hannah?
- I would tell you you're mistaken.
- You know what? I'll be in my room.
Thought I'd let you sleep in.
You found my notes?
Well. sort of hard to miss.
- Watched the video?
- I take it this is our suspect?
Note the coveralls.
The tape you're watching
records his fifth appearance
at the store in a span of two weeks.
During that period of time.
his clothes get progressively dirtier.
save for two rectangular spots
on his knees.
Presumably. he wore some knee pads
while he was digging his tunnel.
Well presumably isn't "definitely."
He may just be a plumber.
And I see he didn't use his
credit card.
As is his wont. Unfortunately.
he can't be identified via receipts.
The woman in the red coat.
however...
- She knows him.
- She paid with her
American Express.
Her name is Yolanda Massee and I'm
stepping into her elevator as we speak.
I'll call you when I know more.
- Yes?
- Hello.
Ms. Massee?
My name is Sherlock Holmes.
I'm a consultant
with the New York Police.
I was hoping I might ask you
a few questions.
- Do you have a badge?
- I'm afraid I'm quite allergic
to iconography. I was hoping you might
be able to tell me this man's name.
- Heh. Is this a joke?
- No.
I think it's Nazim or Nadim.
I'm not really sure.
- But you know him?
- I don't know.
How well do you know
your neighbors?
- He's your neighbor?
- He lives right there.
I'd recommend you leave
your building right now.
What? Why?
Your neighbor heard us talking
And he is currently dousing
his apartment with accelerant.
Go on!
Nadim? Or is it Nazim?
You might find this hard to believe.
but I'm here to help you.
Don't come any closer.
You're not a terrorist at all.
are you? No.
I'm open to the possibility
that Garrison Boyd's death
was an accident. He caught
you unawares and you panicked.
But if you drop that lighter.
you will be attempting murder
on the 200 or so other people
who live in this building.
This contraption was at the heart of
the drawings on Nadim Al-Haj's walls.
I only had a moment to absorb them
before they were engulfed in flames.
but it was clear that he never intended
to sever the cable that he excavated.
Rather. I think his plan
was to splice this device onto it.
You think you can figure out
what it does?
I won't know until we cut off
the melted plastic.
but hopefully.
enough of the circuitry inside is intact.
If I was a betting man. I'd say that
it was meant to collect information
and transmit it elsewhere.
You're thinking
this is one big data grab.
Why not hack into it from a computer?
There's gotta be an easier way
than digging that tunnel.
Ask the NSA.
According to Edward Snowden.
U.S. Intelligence agencies routinely tap
into these cables upstream
of their official tie-ins so they can
better monitor American citizens.
The first time Ruby feeds aboveground
is at 60 Hudson. downtown.
Big banks have offices there
to get financial data first.
but it's also where a lot of info
gets encrypted and after that.
it's harder to spy on.
Actually. digging a hole on Long Island
makes a lot of sense.
So you're saying my phone might
ring at any minute.
telling me this guy works
for our government?
Perhaps. Or a foreign one.
Or a corporation.
Who in this day and age
does not view information as power?
Hopefully. the device will tell us what
information the perp was capturing:
E-mails. trade secrets.
credit-card numbers...
If we're lucky. we'll even get
an IP address where it was being sent.
Then we'll have a better idea
of what we're dealing with.
Nadim Al-Haj. born in Iraq in 1978.
He emigrated to the U.S. In '06
and became a citizen two years ago.
He was an electrical engineer
in his country.
but he's been working here
as a lineman for the cable company.
So he definitely had the skills.
Yeah. a few parking summonses
but no criminal record
that I could find.
- What's that about?
- Oh. you didn't hear?
Hannah made a big collar
on her patrol this morning.
Everyone's been messing
with the captain over it.
- Oh. What'd she do?
- She spotted a perp
who matched the description off
a few drugstore robberies on her beat.
Now. he took off into a warehouse.
she and her partner followed.
scooped him up and found
almost 200 grand worth of pills.
- That's pretty lucky.
- Well. that ain't luck.
That's DNA. She's good.
Hey. you know. I just realized
I forgot. I have to run an errand.
- Just tell Sherlock I'll catch up.
- All right.
Captain. this is all we could find
on Nadim Al-Haj.
It isn't much. Finest message
is out on him and his van.
and Homeland Security's issued
a BOLO to Port Authority.
Amtrak and TSA.
The apartment Mr. Al-Haj occupied is
owned by "The Collin Eisely Group"?
- You know that name?
- I do.
Watson and I paid a visit
to Collin Eisely yesterday.
He's a developer.
Several months ago.
he made a bid on the house
next to the one with the tunnel.
You mean the one that's actually
much closer to the cable?
The man who murdered Garrison Boyd
lives in a building that you own.
What do you suppose the odds
are of that being a coincidence?
I own several buildings. which.
together. house hundreds of tenants.
It may surprise you to know I'm not on
a first-name basis with any of them.
Interesting that you should mention
names. because you changed yours.
Before you got into real estate.
you were a stockbroker.
and until a few years ago.
your legal name was Louis Eisely.
Collin was your middle name.
We're guessing the decision
to change it has something to do
with you serving 18 months
for insider trading?
The name change was aboveboard.
I'm not breaking any laws.
My real-estate dealings go much more
smoothly when my criminal record
isn't the first thing people learn
about me.
I imagine they would.
Because Louis Eisely
was a particularly cutthroat
Wall Street trader.
From the early 2000s.
A man whose downfall.
at the height of his career.
made his name synonymous
with Wall Street greed.
I did my time. Prison changed me.
I'm not so sure that it did.
Trading in secrets put you on top.
Does a man like you ever really
lose a taste for that?
You still haven't explained
what it is you think I did.
You hired Nadim Al-Haj to tap
a transatlantic data cable called Ruby.
Runs right past
Claire Renziger's basement.
So. first. you tried to buy her house.
When she turned you down.
you had Al-Haj dig a tunnel
from next door. instead.
And why would I have done
any of that?
Because you have a savant's talent
for turning information into gold.
Ruby is the motherlode.
Tapping into her would give you
unfettered access to a wealth
of intelligence with which to inform
your investment strategies.
That's actually brilliant. I wish I had
thought of it back when I was trading.
I can't go near the market.
The SEC has banned me
from trading until the day I die.
By court order. every dollar
I have in stocks is in a blind trust.
You can look it up.
Perhaps you're selling
the information for a price.
And keep the proceeds where?
In my mattress?
The Feds audit all my accounts.
I can't win at bingo
without them taking notice.
Gentlemen. I have more important
things to do with my day.
You're fishing; I'm not biting.
Hannah. I just heard the news.
- Congratulations.
- Thanks.
So I thought it was interesting how
you just happened to spot the suspect.
- took a whole stash house down.
- You said to leave you out of it.
This is not about credit. Hannah.
This is about doing the right thing.
The right thing
would've been to kick it upstairs.
- Let Hanford take it from there.
- Right. Go after bigger fish.
So. why didn't you?
You and I know if I turned
this over to Hanford.
I would've ended up a footnote.
If it did lead to bigger fish.
not even that.
- But you don't know that.
- I do. Because I'm a cop. I've seen it.
I know how it works.
- And I'm not a cop. right?
- It's just different for me.
Sergeant's exam is coming up.
I get extra points for commendations.
I thought you were doing this
to help the people on your beat.
Or is that something
you thought I wanted to hear?
I did help them.
I got some bad guys off the street.
Just not as many as you could have.
You helped me when I needed help.
I won't forget it.
Hey. I just ran into
Marcus downstairs.
He told me about Collin Eisely.
Sounds like it didn't go well.
I'm no less convinced of his connection
to Garrison Boyd's murder.
You know. because of his history.
Mr. Eisely's money is in a blind trust.
That means he can't touch it?
More than that.
he can't even know how it's managed.
Now. Eisely's trust is handled
by Robiskie Investments.
a second-tier brokerage house
at best.
I suspect more prominent firms
refused his business
because of the miasma
that still surrounds him.
His investments
are all in computer-traded funds.
which deliver a return far less
than the profits he once made.
- That's got to burn.
- Indeed.
A man who had spent his entire life
exploiting weaknesses
in the financial system would surely
chafe at such restrictions.
So you thought he wanted to tap
into Ruby in order to profit off
the information.
but there's no way he can profit.
Or that I've found thus far.
But I'm confident
that when TARU deliver its report.
that mystery box is gonna connect
Eisely to the crime.
In the meantime. I found this.
A decade ago. when
Western companies were pillaging
Iraq's resources in the name
of reconstruction.
Eisely toured the oil fields
near Kirkuk.
- That's Nadim Al-Haj.
- Al-Haj was his driver.
He subsequently sponsored
his immigration into the U.S.
Now. "lived in his building"
could be written off to chance.
This cannot.
Hey. a senior technician from TARU
is on his way up.
Says he's got some news.
Parts of it were pretty badly fused.
but we were able to forensically
reconstruct most of the circuitry.
And?
It doesn't look like it was meant
to transmit anything anywhere.
- So. what was it supposed to do?
- That's the thing.
It doesn't store anything.
It doesn't re-route anything.
It doesn't change anything.
It's just a maze of circuits.
Data goes in one end
and comes out the other. That's it.
So someone went to all the trouble
of digging a tunnel.
exposing a transatlantic Internet cable
and murdering a guy
- all so they could attach a devise that...
- Does absolutely nothing.
I just got off the phone with Marcus.
So far. Nadim Al-Haj has done
a pretty good job of disappearing.
He's gone to ground.
Knowing now he's not a hardened
terrorist. I imagine he's quite afraid.
A murder and a flight
from the law were not part of his plan.
- Mason?
- Hey.
- I thought you were grounded.
- From the Internet.
I mean. does this look
like the Internet to you?
So. where New York's finest
nerds failed.
- you're hoping yours will succeed?
- No offense to TARU.
But the simple fact
is they must've missed something.
Nadim Al-Haj did not dig
a 50-foot tunnel
in order to install a plastic bauble with
as much function as a Christmas light.
Until we find out what
the devise does.
we cannot connect Collin Eisely
to any crime.
So I've solicited a second opinion.
It's my hope that Mason
will find something
- that the police technicians missed.
- I'm trying. But don't hold your breath.
I'm running parity bit tests.
file compares.
metadata compares.
different character sets. packet sizes...
You're running tests. We get it.
I'm gonna get something to eat.
Upstairs. may I presume that was
Hannah that you sent to voicemail?
Yeah. I didn't think she was gonna
leave a message. but she did.
Said she didn't feel great
about how we left things.
and wanted to thank me.
She didn't really come out
and say it.
but I got the sense that what
she really wanted to know
is what I'm gonna tell the captain.
- What are you gonna tell him?
- I don't know. I mean...
He's gonna wanna know
what happened. right?
She's a police officer.
but she's also his daughter.
Obviously the truth will disappoint.
- I should tell him.
- You should not.
You've expended enough time
and effort on Hannah Gregson.
Telling him will only embroil
you further and benefit no one.
Well. thanks for not actually saying
the words "I told you so."
Well. for the record. I thought she
was a subpar investigator.
I'd no idea she was so cunning.
Anyway. I sent Mason home
for the night.
Thus far. his tests uphold
the dignity of the N.Y.P.D.
The stream of zeroes and ones
generated by his tests
entered one end of the device
and emerged a consistent
formula seconds later. unchanged.
It is quite literally a box
that does nothing.
- Unless that's the whole point.
- What?
The four milliseconds
that doing nothing would take.
What difference would
four milliseconds make to anything?
In your world and mine. none at all.
To a human being.
it's a imperceptible amount of time.
But the lion's share of trading
on Wall Street happens automatically.
via computers.
And in their world. milliseconds
translate to millions of dollars.
Ruby is the fastest transatlantic cable
that there is.
Terminates on American soil
at 60 Hudson Street.
where. in order to extract
financial data first.
the top investment firms
pay a premium to house their servers.
Now. any company
which does not lease a space
at 60 Hudson
is at instant disadvantage.
Would you care to guess
which firm is not flush
with enough capital to earn
a spot at 60 Hudson?
Robiskie Investments.
They manage your blind trust.
Only their servers
are in a different building.
Their data comes in from
a slower transatlantic cable.
One that is usually
two milliseconds behind.
A market closes halfway around the
world. currency drops. a regime falls.
the news hurdles across the globe
at the speed of light.
The larger firms' computers
buy and sell thousands of shares
before the one that holds
your money even gets the news.
So you planned to turn the tables.
Slow Ruby down by four milliseconds.
Suddenly the big firms
are the ones at a disadvantage.
Your blind trust
would start making more money.
And your hands would stay clean.
Other firms and clients would benefit
too. anyone who pulled their data
from a source other than Ruby.
But for a man pathologically driven
to play the game.
that's a small price to pay.
Might even be a plus.
Given that it would hide
your gains amongst the crowd.
You give me a lot of credit.
Like I said before. it's a brilliant plan.
But even if you're right.
you still have a problem.
You can't link me to any of it.
Well. when my colleagues
and I got together this morning.
I said the same thing.
I also asked about something
that's been bugging me.
When you first hired Nadim Al-Haj.
the job didn't include murder.
Once he killed Garrison Boyd.
you must've promised him
a pretty big payday to keep him quiet.
Especially with him going on
the run for who knows how long.
But with your finances watched
so closely. how could you pay him?
When I crossed paths
with Mr. Al-Haj the other day.
he absconded with a poster tube.
a conspicuous detail in itself.
given that he was so busy destroying
so much other evidence.
I thought perhaps he'd retained
a keepsake. some schematics.
some leverage to hold over you
should the need arise.
But when Detective Bell raised
his question.
I remembered noticing something
when we were here yesterday.
That's not the same painting
that was here the first time we visited.
It was a Picasso.
Woman's Portrait.
Not well-known.
but even a lesser work
by the master must be worth millions.
Is it here?
We've already reported it stolen.
No dealer is gonna touch it.
Al-Haj won't be able to get a dime.
You tell us if we're wrong. Mr. Eisely.
But we don't get the sense
he's a professional killer.
It's only a matter of time
before we find him.
And given that his
payday's going away.
it's a good bet
that when we do. he'll talk.
Now. you like to make deals. right?
How about before we find him.
you make one right now?
Oh. Joan?
- Hi.
- Nice work today.
- On the Eisely thing.
- Oh. thanks.
- I'll pass that on to Sherlock.
- I'm sorry.
For what?
She told you?
You just seemed a little off
these last couple of days.
I know it wasn't the credit.
You and Holmes don't care
about that stuff. but...
- Whatever it was...
- You know what? She just got excited.
That's all.
I don't think you should help her
again.
She is what she is.
She wants what she wants.
I love her but I love this job too.
The people who do it...
She's gotta do better.
All right. good night.
Ripped By mstoll
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org